# mips_cpu
The main goal of this lab is to create the MIPS 32 architecture inside of the Vivado software. Lab 3 required the creation of the fetching architecture. This part of the lab includes the program counter, the increment of the counter, the instruction memory, and the instruction fetch/instruction decode register. Secondly, the decode stage was created. This stage of the MIPS pipeline includes very important components such as the control unit, the register file, the sign extender, the instruction decode and execute register, and the destination register mux. After all of this was created, Lab 4 was the next stage. 
Lab 4 started with the creation of the circuits in the execution stage. This included an ALU immediate mux, and the ALU itself. The execution and memory register was also created. After this, the memory access stage was created. This includes data memory and the memory write-back register. Lab 5 was the final stage which was the write-back all that was needed was a write-back mux that could select between a memory value and an ALU value. The output can then be written back to the updated register file. After creating everything the data will be recorded. 
Now for the final project, forwarding must be added to complete the MIPS CPU. Forwarding is used to prevent control and data hazards and significantly increase the speed and efficiency of the CPU. The MIPS Instruction Set Architecture utilizes a one-delay slot mechanism to ensure that the instruction in the delay slot is always executed.
